# Behavioral Interview Questions - 01
### Date 1-19-2021

## Behavioral Questions:
1.	Question 1: Tell me about the system you use for keeping track of multiple projects. How do you track your progress so that you can meet deadlines? How do you stay focused? (commitment to task)
  - Situation: I have been working for a major construction company in the Seattle area for a little over 2 yrs now, while working there I have also been a member of the Washington National Guard, now I am attending a code fellows bootcamp. Each of these jobs can have significant time requirements and often without careful coordination the schedule can conflict, potentially at very inconvenient times.
  - Task: I have adopted the use of 3 digital tools to ensure that I track and meet all required deadlines. The most important tool being Outlook and the Outlook calendar to keep track of my basic timeline to provide de-confliction upon key dates, and times. The second is excel, which is one of the easier methods to share purchase orders and expediting with other members of my office. The third, is Trello, which I use to record individual goals, deadlines, and track progress throughout the duration of a project. 
  - Action: Ensuring these tools are up to date is a primary focus but allows me to maintain focus and direction from day to day. If I start allowing scope creep to overshadow either of these jobs, then things will begin to drop off the plate and I will not be successful in anything I do.
  - Result: Setting a realistic time budget is important to maintain a healthy life and mission success in both work, school, and the NG.
2.	Question 2: Give me a specific example of a time when you sold your supervisor or professor on an idea or concept. How did you proceed? What was the result? (assertiveness)
  - Situation: The business world has a lot of information that is produced that needs to be condensed and cleaned up before it is used for presentations or anything further. 
  - Task: When I arrived at a past large project each of the different trades (4 company trades, and 1 subcontractor, 5 total), were providing a daily log of work completed by filling out an excel spreadsheet and then sending it to the office to compile into a shared document before it is transferred to the General Contractor (GC). I was the office staff that was tasked to move this information to a single document and transfer to the GC. I created a google sheets file to allow each of the trade foreman to enter the data into the form, which would allow me to review the document, correct spelling, grammar, and any other small errors before converting to PDF and submitting to the GC.
  - Action: To ensure adoption, I had to approach 2 separate groups of people.
    -	The trade general foremen were slow to want to adopt it. I had to provide training and demonstrate that it would be the same amount of work on their part, no matter which program they plugged the data into – easier since they could go to the same link every day, rather than creating a different file daily.
    - to convince the staff that this was required, I calculated the amount of time each week that I was using to copy and paste the same information into the new file, then added that together for the duration of the project and calculated it out using my wages + burden. Having a numerical value represent the time wasted was an important bargaining chip.
  - Result: This was adopted by the project and the project staff that I worked with. The staff has continued to adopt this and other cloud-based reporting mechanisms that were not embraced in the company at this level previously.
 .	 
3.	Question 3: Give me an example of the project or initiative that you started on your own. It can be a non-business one. What prompted you to get started?
   - Situation: Last year, I was working in Afghanistan. I was assigned to a remote location with very little infrastructure previously in place. The camp had been receiving heavy fire (mortars, rockets, etc..), for months before I arrived and there was very little resistance or posturing to stop this within the camp. They relied on the out perimeter for defense.
  - Task: To ensure my own safety and the safety of the crews I worked with, I took charge of the contractors and NATO forces on ground to build up and enforce base security.
  - Action: The biggest hurdle was lack of training, although these were mostly military, they were primarily soft skills that were focused on infrastructure tasks, logistics, chow hall, mechanical, etc. We set up a training and drill schedule to work on battle drills that focused on base security to ensure that every-one on base knew their roles when an event happened. 
  - Result: This allowed up to successfully lead counter attacks and ensure the safety of the members of camp until the camp was retrograded (broken down) and all US forces were moved to other location
